No offense in any way if you want to skip my introduction, dedication, prelude, or whatever you like to call it.  Paragraph one is my background and why I am doing this. Paragraph two is what this app is about, what problems I am trying to solve, and why I am solving them. 

Hi! I guess I officially passed the first impression test. My name is Jason Stahley. I am 40 years old and was born in 1983 (go ahead and figure out what year it is; you know you want to (2024)). I remember buying my very first train car. It was an HO blue box car, and I still have it. I guess I was around 11 years old. A few years later, I used all my money to buy a Bachman Santa Fe starter set. I knew it was the perfect match for my little blue box car, still in the box ready to carry some freight. The starter set was around $25 dollars. I got hooked fast! My dad built me a portable platform with two hinges and the platform folded in the middle. I removed two tracks and folded the platform up at night, and the platform would fit in the back of my bedroom closet. Every day, I would pull out the platform, unfold it, put the two tracks back in over the hinged gap, and play around for hours. Eventually, my clever dad got the idea to get me a bunk bed. I slept on the top bunk, and I got to build different layouts on the bottom bunk.This was also the time I really started getting into electronics. This was about the mid-90s after my dad got out of the Air Force and eventually went through an electrical apprenticeship program and became an electrician. When I was in my mid-teens I remember riding my bike to the bookstore and coming home with books the size of Bibles on electricity and solid-state electronics. I would ask my father questions about different theories that he could not answer. That said, I did not do so well in high school. While everyone was reading Romeo and Juliet, I was reading books on ohms law, transformer theory, and blowing up transistors in my parent's basement (that I bought by riding my bicycle to Radio Shack and eventually worked at for 5 years). Time goes on, and I sort of drift out of the hobby in a way as I turn 18, go to college, work, and start doing the whole growing-up thing. … 20 some years later, I suddenly remembered how happy this hobby made me. I wish the internet existed when I was 10. Learning is different today. We can learn what we want when we want, and how we want. We just have to put in the time to do it. With all that said, this is one of two projects that I would like to dedicate to the amazing open source world. Remember, you do not have to be a software engineer to contribute. Updating my bad English in the documentation is helpful. If you would like to check out my other project, you can find it on GitHub at [Flying-Entertainment](https://github.com/Flying-Entertainment)

Ok, I guess it is time to get serious. As an enthusiast amateur modeler, I can understand the barrier to entry knowledge required to get started in model trains. Carpentry for the platform, electricity to run the trains, AC for some scales, DC for others, and then DCC (Digital Command Control), which has nothing directly related to DC (direct current), and the list can go on. We did not even touch all the skills behind modeling and the infinite painting techniques. What about weathering? Airbrush? Chalk? Charcoal? The objective of this community is to give the most insightful information to make it as easy as possible for those trying to get into modeling real life transient operations. ModelTranzit is an app designed to make the barrier to entry modeling fun. I like to model railroad operations and enjoy making the most realistic scenes possible.  I want everything to look and operate as realistic as possible. The initial design is my biggest struggle with building a model train layout/platform and that is what this software is intended to solve. This application uses GPS data for modelers to derive track plans from real-life GPS data. The first decision the modeler needs to make is the location the modeler wants to model. I am going to start with 30th Street Station in Philadelphia. As the modeler, I can draw a box around the 30th Street Station, and the software will use the GPS data to draw the railroad tracks. At this point, the user can keep selecting locations by drawing boxes. When the modeler is finished, the software renders everything within the selected to the selected scale of the modeler (HO, O, 1:64, etc.). The software will also figure out the routes in between and have custom scale options based on additional user preferences. In other words, the modeler can have different scales over different locations. I will not likely have enough space to have a 1:87 scale version of the 30th Street Station. As the modeler, I can scale the yard in any way possible. The goal here is to get a rough 2D track plan and start to generate a shape that will eventually be used to render the track plan and wood plans needed to build the layout. The software provides different options based on the modeler's requirements. 

As the project develops, it will also evolve into the other intricacies of modeling. Creating a database that tracks the location of specific models to actual structures will be valuable for someone modeling a specific demographic.  
